(CNN)Here's a look at nuclear nations. Information about nuclear stockpiles varies from source to source. The information below is sourced to the Nuclear Threat Initiative and the US State Department. Countries with confirmed nuclear weapons China -  Approximately 320 nuclear warheads and 90 nuclear-capable intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs). France - Approximately 290 nuclear warheads. India - Approximately 150 nuclear warheads. Pakistan - Approximately 160-165 nuclear weapons. Russia - Estimated 6,257 nuclear  warheads. United Kingdom - 225 nuclear warheads. United States - 3,750 nuclear warheads. Countries with unconfirmed nuclear weapons Israel - Estimated 90 nuclear warheads. North Korea - Has conducted at least six nuclear tests since 2006. Claimed, in 2017, to have successfully conducted their first test of an ICBM. Estimated 25-50 nuclear warheads. Countries suspected of developing nuclear weapons Iran - World powers, including the United States, want to curb Iran's nuclear program to keep it from developing a nuclear bomb. For more details on Iran's program, visit Iran's Nuclear Capabilities Fast Facts. July 14, 2015 - After 20 months of talks, negotiators finalize a landmark nuclear deal between Iran, the United States and five other countries. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) states "Iran reaffirms that under no circumstances will (it) ever seek, develop or acquire nuclear weapons." The agreement, which has a 15-year time frame, requires Iran to reduce its centrifuges by two-thirds. It also bans enrichment at key facilities. In exchange, the country will get relief from economic sanctions and permission to continue its atomic program for peaceful purposes. May 8, 2018 - US President Donald Trump announces that the United States is officially withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal. Countries that have the ability to build nuclear weapons, but claim not to have any nuclear ambitions Japan - On November 30, 2006, Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso stated that Japan possesses the knowledge and ability to produce nuclear weapons but has no plans to do so. Countries that have abandoned nuclear weapons or weapons programs in recent years Belarus - Still has a civilian nuclear research program. Kazakhstan - Although it inherited nuclear warheads after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Kazakhstan transferred the inventory back to Russia. Ukraine - After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine had the third largest arsenal of nuclear weapons. The weapons were transferred back to Russia. South Africa - Became a non-nuclear weapons state in 1991. 